README.md, before:

# Path
No hardcoded absolute paths for exporting(like C:/Users/...).
os.path.join(BASE_DIR, ...) so project works on any machine
Example:
BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))
RAW_DATA_DIR = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "data/raw")

--- Train.py ---
if __name__ == "__main__" tests run on dummy data
Useful for visualisation of tensorboard metrics change or training changes


# Environment management
Export dependencies:
pip freeze > requirements.txt
On other machines, install:
pip install -r requirements.txt
PyTorch version works with cpu, not cuda so need to install it manually:
pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126


# Logging & outputs
All logs, models, and outputs are inside the project folder (e.g., logs/ or models/).


# Version control
Using Git to keep the code synced.
Raw data tracked as well for now, small enough


# Command for multi ticker history price download for raw data:
python scripts/download_data_polygon.py --tickers AAPL MSFT AMZN JPM BAC XOM CAT WMT KO TSLA --start 2020-11-01 --end 2025-11-01 --interval 1m --output_dir data/raw


# How top open Tensorboard log files under runs folder:
1. tensorboard --logdir=runs indide project .venv terminal
2. go to browser and type http://localhost:6006
Note: added automatic opening, use manual way if needed shouldn't be the case

# Run Commands
 - Larger model for better performance
python main.py --ticker AAPL --d_model 256 --nhead 8 --num_layers 4 --dim_feedforward 1024

 - Smaller model for faster training
python main.py --ticker AAPL --d_model 64 --nhead 4 --num_layers 2 --dim_feedforward 256

 - Adjust training parameters
python main.py --ticker AAPL --epochs 30 --batch 128 --lr 5e-5

# Hypertuning parameters
python main.py --ticker AAPL --window=20 --train_size=0.8 --epochs=1 --batch=64 --lr=1e-4 --threshold=0.01 --balance=10000 --transaction_cost=0.02 --d_model=64 --nhead=4 --num_layers=2 --dim_feedforward=256 --dropout=0.1 --patience=20 --lr_scheduler_patience=5 --lr_scheduler_factor=0.5

# TO DO:
1. Add forward testing with the best_model.pth
2. Keep on working on the project, add more advanced functionnalities

Commit message:

Changed the readme and excalidraw pipeline now accessible with a link

README.md, after:

# Transformer-Based Intraday Trading Model

This project explores the use of Transformer architectures for modeling high-frequency financial time series and evaluating intraday trading strategies.
The model is trained on five years of historical one-minute market data, enriched with technical indicators such as RSI, MACD, and moving averages, and structured into sliding-window sequences to preserve temporal dynamics.
The pipeline leverages a pooling-based Transformer to capture both global trends and strong local signals within each time window, while enabling efficient parallel training compared to recurrent models. 
Beyond predictive accuracy, the project emphasizes interpretability through attention map visualizations and realism through a backtesting framework that incorporates transaction costs and portfolio evolution.
The full end-to-end pipeline from data ingestion and feature engineering to model training, visualization, and trading evaluation is documented in an Excalidraw diagram.
https://excalidraw.com/#json=4mQ57WtX6dZF32uV4L1DO,EDTs6uWyswa4nHoszKC7bw

# Path
No hardcoded absolute paths for exporting(like C:/Users/...).
os.path.join(BASE_DIR, ...) so project works on any machine
Example:
BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))
RAW_DATA_DIR = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "data/raw")

--- Train.py ---
if __name__ == "__main__" tests run on dummy data
Useful for visualisation of tensorboard metrics change or training changes


# Environment management
Export dependencies:
pip freeze > requirements.txt
On other machines, install:
pip install -r requirements.txt
PyTorch version works with cpu, not cuda so need to install it manually:
pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126


# Logging & outputs
All logs, models, and outputs are inside the project folder (e.g., logs/ or models/).


# Version control
Using Git to keep the code synced.
Raw data tracked as well for now, small enough


# Command for multi ticker history price download for raw data:
python scripts/download_data_polygon.py --tickers AAPL MSFT AMZN JPM BAC XOM CAT WMT KO TSLA --start 2020-11-01 --end 2025-11-01 --interval 1m --output_dir data/raw


# How top open Tensorboard log files under runs folder:
1. tensorboard --logdir=runs indide project .venv terminal
2. go to browser and type http://localhost:6006
Note: added automatic opening, use manual way if needed shouldn't be the case

# Run Commands
 - Larger model for better performance
python main.py --ticker AAPL --d_model 256 --nhead 8 --num_layers 4 --dim_feedforward 1024

 - Smaller model for faster training
python main.py --ticker AAPL --d_model 64 --nhead 4 --num_layers 2 --dim_feedforward 256

 - Adjust training parameters
python main.py --ticker AAPL --epochs 30 --batch 128 --lr 5e-5

# Hypertuning parameters
python main.py --ticker AAPL --window=20 --train_size=0.8 --epochs=1 --batch=64 --lr=1e-4 --threshold=0.01 --balance=10000 --transaction_cost=0.02 --d_model=64 --nhead=4 --num_layers=2 --dim_feedforward=256 --dropout=0.1 --patience=20 --lr_scheduler_patience=5 --lr_scheduler_factor=0.5

# TO DO:
1. Add forward testing with the best_model.pth
2. Keep on working on the project, add more advanced functionnalities
